**End-User Development (EUD)** aims to empower end-users to **create
their own digital technologies** to meet their specific needs.

**Handling data** and performing **analysis** has become a **key skill**
in many professions across a wide range of domains and is at the core of
**scientific discovery** in a wide range of scientific disciplines.
**End users are experts in their field**. Improving the ability of
people without a computing background to develop digital systems will
enable them to do their jobs more efficiently and to **participate**
effectively in **shaping our digital future**.

Empowering individuals across society to create **software**,
**databases**, interactive **websites**, mobile **apps**, physical
computing devices and **IoT systems** is key to **democratising the
digital transformation**. Especially as **machine learning** becomes
ubiquitous, tools and methods for end-user development are essential to
ensure **broad participation**.

A **major shift** is underway with foundation models **and large
language models**. These models open up **new directions for end-user
development** and a potential for **societal change**. These
technologies are already facilitating software development processes
(e.g. co-pilot), but pose major challenges for software quality.

IS-EUD is a bi-annual event that **brings together researchers and
practitioners** interested in **advancing our knowledge** about the
design of **end-user development technologies** and providing scientific
accounts of phenomena surrounding end-user development practices. The
conference welcomes contributions on:

-   Simple and efficient **environments for end-user development**

-   **Large language models** (LLMs) to empower end-user development

-   **No-code, low-code**, and **visual languages** to create software
    and systems

-   **Theoretical concepts and foundations** for the field of end-user
    development

-   New **processes, methods and techniques** for end-user development

-   Approaches empowering users to **create, modify and tailor digital
    artefacts**

-   **Case studies** and **design** **implications** on challenges and
    practices of EUD'

We look forward to receiving your contributions: **papers, short talks,
demos and posters**. It is planned that accepted papers (both regular
and short) will be published in the **archival proceedings** (by
Springer in LNCS) and presented in the **plenary sessions** of the
conference. The conference is **16-18 of June in Munich** and the
submission deadline is February 2025.
